- Timeline
  collapsed:: true
	- 0 - The world is born
- World
  collapsed:: true
	- Albidaya
- Summary/Planning
  collapsed:: true
	- Session 1
	- DM Notes
		- Albidaya
			- The white dragon in the mountain, and information about the heroes of old
				- Were defeated by them when they came to the island
					- Elemental power
			- The oppressive king and his control of the island, and why he resembles the dwarf from the heroes of old
				- The oppression in Willow’s sector the Emerald Enclave
				- The closed ports around the island and especially in Zhentarim
				- Issues in the capital
				- The fourth sector and how they are connected
			- The mystery of Innsmouth, and what the Kuo-Toa’s have to do with it
				- They made the False Hydra and most of the townspeople are dead or being eaten
				- The Kuo-Toa’s occupy the town
			- The unknown fifth hag
				- Night Hag currently on ship will do something on next island
		- Rassambler
			- Mountain is covered volcano that will go off later
		- Riben
			- Theocracy - Head Priest and 12 main priests
				- They worship [Ilmater](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Ilmater) diety of endurance, martyrdom, perseverance, and suffering.
				- One priest is a charismatic leader type named Hitora (Main villain of island)
			- Lost Forest - Magical fog that when entered pushes the person right back out
				- Where beacon is
				- Large magical tree at the center, guarded by a unicorn
				- Forest gnomes of Boof’s type
				- Bodies of some adventurers in the tree
				- Sigil on tree is the same as on cube, and glows when brought near
		- Random shit
			- Horseshoes of a zephyr allows you to have ocean-based cavalry. You can literally be pirate mongolian horse archers. Water walk also works but since it's impermanent it works best for short mounted attacks and raids, or for a surprise bording.
		- Timeline of Villain
			- Dnd Full Timeline.pdf
		- Map
			-
			-
		- Ancient Language
			-
	- Basic Rules
		- Exploration, travel, and interaction are pretty self explanatory but the basis of most everything you do is ability checks and saves
			- If there's something that you want to do such as deceiving someone, investigating, perceiving while exploring, doing a physical task such as jumping a gap, lifting something heavy, doing something acrobatic, then you will make an ability check
				- These checks range in difficulty given by the DM (me) based on the task called the DC, but essentially you roll the d20 (20 sided die) and add whatever modifier is attached to the ability according to your character and if it reaches or is higher than the DC, then you do it.
				- If you roll a 20 it is called a critical success and depends on the DM, but essentially means you do it with incredibly success and something else can happen to add to it
				- If you roll a 1 it is called a natural failure and again depends on DM, but means something else bad happens
				- If there is something trying to prevent you from doing the task (which varies a lot and it'll make more sense when you play) then you are given disadvantage, which means you roll two d20s and pick the lower value. However, if there is help of some kind (again varies a lot and will make more sense as you play and the circumstance) then you get advantage, which means you roll two d20s and pick the higher
				- I’m pretty lenient in what you can achieve as a character with ability checks but it has to be somewhat reasonable and I always default to the rule of cool and will reward funny and creative stuff through inspiration which you can spend later to roll advantage (on a check or in combat)
			- Saving throws are similar to ability checks except it is a reaction to something happening to the character usually damage related, and you roll a d20 and add whatever ability it corresponds with to see if you beat the DC of the saving throw (These depend a lot but not something you really have to worry about cause the DM will dictate it all of the time)
			- Abilities
				- There are abilities in and out of combat that characters have from their race or class that add to the game and can be used for flavor as well but are pretty simple to understand
		- Combat
			- Combat is a bit harder to explain and will vary depending on the character you pick, but its a lot easier to understand after playing through an encounter
			- Determine surprise, which allows whoever is not surprised an extra turn in the beginning
			- You roll initiative to determine who goes first to last (roll a d20 and add initiative modifier, and its highest to lowest in order)
			- On your turn you have movement and an action
				- You have an action that will be often used to make an attack:
					- Essentially what it boils down to is make an attack by rolling a d20:
						- Physical - Add modifier that’s attached to the weapon
						- Spell - Add spell attack modifier
					- If the attack is at or higher than the enemies armor class, then it hits
					- Roll damage depending on weapon or spell
					- Do whatever the spell says to the enemy outside of damage (There are some spell effects that still work regardless of hitting and it’ll say it on the spell)
				- Other things you can use an action for are:
					- Dash - you can move double your speed
					- Disengage - Doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks (attacks that happen if you move out of a 5 foot radius of an enemy
					- Dodge - Attack rolls against you have disadvantage (lower of tow d20s)
					- Help - Essentially gives advantage to whoever you are helping
					- Hide - roll a check and hide
					- Ready - prepare a reaction that will happen as a result of something else
					- Search - Make a check to search something
					- Use an object - Self explanatory
			- Add flavor and describe attacks as well as any abilities you want to use and there are some other things like the particulars of hiding and conditions, but I will handle most of the heavy lifting when it comes to that considering you guys are new players
			- Just try to keep some of this stuff in mind and don't be afraid to ask cause there are some things that can bog down combat and overcomplicate things
			- I will print out spell cards for us as well cause from personal experience, constantly searching through the players handbook is a giant pain and to have it right in front of you is so convenient
		- That’s a very simplified version of the rules and it'll become a lot easier to understand the first time we play so don’t get bogged down with not understanding stuff cause most of it becomes self explanatory or I will be the one handling it.
	- Albidaya
		- We start on an island called Albidaya, which in recent years has fallen into somewhat of a disarray. A tyrannical king and his corrupt army have caused rifts between the four factions that control the island. The island is split into 4 main areas, with the royal city almost being a bubble in the center. Each of these areas are controlled by a faction (controlled is loose and many that live in each part are not necessarily part of the faction but just reside there) and the royal family sits at the top as monarchs. The factions (and the features of the areas they control are as follows:
		- Order of the gauntlet (top left section of the island) - These are people that aim to do good and purify the land of evil, but many of their ranks have fallen to corruption due to the king's influence. However some still remain strong in their ideals trying to help as many people as possible. The area is characterized by small towns and villages with some farmland and a focus on fishing due to the ocean and a river passing through. However there are no ports leaving the island in this section.
		- Emerald Enclave (bottom left section of the island) - These are people who oppose threats to the wilderness and aim to survive in the wild. In recent years, the kingdom has grown oppressive to their self sufficiency, and wants them to provide for the kingdom rather than just for themselves. Generally, they remain safe from the kingdom because their forces are so spread out. This area is characterized by a large forest and large camps spread over the trees and hills. The emerald enclave has no need to leave the island, so there are no ports in this section.
		- Zhentarim (bottom right section of the island) - This is the section with a large city and bustling crowds as well as where many of the poor and struggling live. It is mainly controlled by the kingdom and aims to keep the poor, poor. In recent years, all the ports around the island including 2 located in Zhentarim were closed by the kingdom to ensure people didn’t leave en mass. The largest port town known as Innsmouth was not closed by the kingdom, but suddenly surrounded by fog and the residents began to act oddly, so it was abandoned.
		- Blood Hunters (top right section of the island) - This area is named Khoon, and the people are characterized as hard workers who physically work their body and build it to survive the harshest of conditions. The land is split by two snowy mountain ranges forming a cross, and these people have learned to adapt this harsh environment. However, due to this harshness, not many people come and go, and only a small group of elite warriors actually thrive in this environment. There are small camps of these people in the valleys of these ranges, and most commoners live in small villages in the areas in between (usually closer to the center).
		- You guys can choose a faction and actually be part of it, or just simply have lived in one the areas before. Can also live in the main royal city in the middle, but remember that the king and his connections are evil and came into power around 10 or so years ago.
	- Backstories
		- Zunitra (Andrew)
			- My parents were residents of innsmouth, until one day, they disappeared from memory. Nobody remembers them, the guild, our world famous band The Rat King, which I worked so hard to get into. Each day goes by with their names and faces slowly disappearing. Last night, I dreamt of a brother so real it was as if I actually had one. Then I woke up and his face slowly faded from my memory. I now sing the songs of a forgotten band from a forgotten land, words whose strings danced for many heroes of our time, which only I remember. Sometimes from the depths of my throat I conjure up the curses of great darkness hidden beneath the port. Sometimes I call the waves of the oceans who once served my homeland with our cargo ships and naval vessels. I don't know if they're still out there, but any innsmouth survivors must have been forgotten by now. Though my slate wiped clean, my heart weeps for those who died a second time(memory) before their first time(death).
		- Willow Stitchsole (Brian)
			- Born into Halfling family of humble shoemakers. Made shoes out of stuff from the surrounding forest and leather shop. "Stitchsole Fine Footwear" had a presence in the halfling village
			- Father was a master shoemaker who crafted a special pair of boots when I came of age. They're very good boots, high quality, functional, and sentimental.
			- Disaster strikes! The king's army annexes the village in the aims to replace it with a facility to harvest some sort of resource. Out of all the Stitchsoles, Willow is the only one to have made it out alive.
			- The surviving villagers have been displaced into the surrounding area, with Willow fleeing into the forest where the Emerald Enclave resides. The Enclave has taken him in and trained him on survival and subterfuge.
			-
		- Roi (Aaron)
			- Roi's life began in the heart of a kingdom capital ruled by an oppressive and tyrannical king. The kingdom was once a place of prosperity and unity, but it had spiraled into chaos under the rule of a power-hungry monarch. Born into the shadows of this repressive regime, Roi's early years were marked by secrecy and discretion. His parents were loyal subjects, and they instilled in him a deep sense of duty to the kingdom.
			- Roi, a quick-witted and agile young man, was selected to serve as a government spy, akin to a covert operative in the kingdom's intelligence agency. His talents were apparent from a young age, and he excelled in the arts of espionage. Under the alias "Roi," he infiltrated the highest echelons of society, gathering information on the king's enemies and helping quell any signs of rebellion. However, as Roi delved deeper into the dark underbelly of the capital, he began to witness the stark disparities between the lavish lifestyles of the wealthy elite and the suffering of the common folk. Disillusionment crept over Roi as he realized that his actions only served to empower the oppressive government and the corrupt nobility. He witnessed the exploitation of the poor, the relentless taxation, and the suffering that they endured. Roi's conscience could no longer bear the weight of his treacherous work.
			- He decided to use his insider knowledge to turn the tables on the rich and powerful. Roi transitioned from a government spy to a masterful rogue, honing his skills in stealth and subterfuge. He became an expert in explosives, using his knowledge of demolitions to infiltrate the most secure vaults, mansions, and treasuries in the kingdom. Roi's exploits became legendary, as he robbed the wealthy and reinvested the back into the poorer communities.
			- Roi soon became infamous, attracting the attention of numerous heist teams and crews. His reputation as a demolitions expert was unmatched, and he worked with a variety of skilled individuals who shared his interests. Together, they continued to strike at the heart of the oppressive regime.
			- However, the turning point in Roi's life came when he received a contract from an anonymous party to assassinate the oppressive king himself. The plan was meticulously crafted, but despite their careful preparations, the operation went horribly wrong. Roi and his team barely escaped with their lives, while the king's security forces closed in. In the aftermath of the failed assassination, Roi and his comrades were forced to disband and go into hiding. The king cracked down even harder on the lower class as a punishment and broke up any type of organization.
			- For years, Roi remained in the shadows, haunted by the events of that disastrous night. He knew that the kingdom was still under the thumb of the oppressive king, but he had lost the will to continue the fight. Instead, he lived a life of anonymity, laying low and avoiding the prying eyes of both his former allies and the king's agents. Roi remained hidden, a ghost of his former self, waiting for the right moment to emerge from the darkness and finish what he had started, determined to see the oppressive king's reign come to an end.
		- Boof (Marc)
		- Saturn (Alex)
		- Sir Came-a-lot (Shlok)
			- Born and raised in the royal capital. Got too close to the kings daughter King did not like… banish me to a poor Emerald Enclave village. It had more mid/old females Years later king attacks the village for fun… due to low male ratio, even women join battle
			- Many MILFS save me along the way/help in war
			- We won war but king got away
			- Village was destroyed
			- So now I just go town to town
			- But since the kings daughter… never really cared about girls
			- Only milfs
			- And I got a milf figure/self portraits from one random milf
			- I’ve grown cold to the world and hate my knights job -> hate saving people… Now I like to see fights break out but only help when the fights impact me
			-
- Testing for git